India!
A Golden bird.
However, many external invasions
shattered the soul of that bird..
Remember Tanhaji!
The warrior who makes his own sword..
..he trusts the sword
more than anything.
Look Tanhya..
If you wield a sword,
wield it like lighting.
If you want to travel
then ride the storm.
If you want to challenge
then challenge as high as the sun.
What will you do now, Tanhya?
Even your shield has
a sharp edge to it Tanhya.
Blood was flowing like water.
Courage was shattered.
What is this sound, Father?
- It is time to go to war, Tanhya! - Nevertheless,
there were few fighters for freedom..
..Who were sharpening their courage.
I will come with you.
No Tanhya..
Take care of your mother and Surya.
Eyes filled with despair,
- Every breath was bursting of fear.
- Glory to Mahadev!
As if, people were
offenders on their own land.
If you don't pay tax,
give up your religion,
If not your religion..
..then you will have
to sacrifice your life.
Glory to Mahadev!
War requires bravery..not weapons..
An army is not needed, courage is.
One who is not afraid of losing..
..victory is not far away from him..
Father.
You are my pillar of strength Tanhaji.
People leave behind many possessions.
I am leaving you behind with a debt.
'The Freedom of our Motherland.'
Glory to..Mahadev!
Father!
An empire of darkness
spread in every direction.
Despair had crossed all limits.
And at that time,
A ray of hope was born
over the western hills of India.
His name was Shivaji Shahaji Bhosle.
Now Shivaji was the
strength of his people.
And his strength were
his companions..his chiefs..
Baji Prabhu Deshpande,
Yesaji Kank,
Dadasaheb Narasprabhu,
Noor Khan Beig,
And his most favourite among them,
His right hand man.
Born in Konkan's red soil,
From umrath.
Brave Maratha..
Tanhaji Malusare.
'Religion created the faith.'
'Training inculcated bravery.'
The Marathas began to slash
away at the Mughal empire..
..with their sharp edged swords.
Soon Swaraj started blooming
with the victory of 40 forts.
Delhi could not bear
this victory of the Marathas.
The saffron (Maratha
flag) caught Alamgir's eyes.
Mirza Raje Jai Singh is here!
Glory to the Mughal Empire!
Mirza Raje!
If a rat is destroying the
Mughal flag in front of your eyes..
..then what will you do?
Kill him, Aalijaah.
Then shrewd Alamgir executed
his most vicious plan.
Pitting a Hindu against another Hindu.
Mirza Raje Jai Singh.
As if a reliable elephant
riding on another elephant.
With an army of 80,000 soldiers..
..Mirza Raje reached Deccan.
On one end,
there was the storm of Mughals..
..and on the other end
were only a handful of Marathas.
For the first time,
Swaraj seemed in trouble.
Mirza Raje surrounded the forts
of the Marathas as soon as he arrived.
Torna, Purandar, Tikona and Kondhana.
And at that time, atop Kondhana
was situated, the mother of Swaraj.
Jijau..
..AKA Aau Saheb.
O Goddess Bhawani..
Mother of this world..
Destroyer of sorrows..
Goddess of power..
Now you will only tell..
..whether Swaraj will prevail,
or perish by the
hands of these monsters?
The future of Swaraj was uncertain.
There were more swords
made than soldiers.
Neither the Mughals
nor Marathas backed down.
His cannons can never reach Kondhana.
Till when?
No matter how strong the fort is...
it is vulnerable without reserves.
When the enemy can't be defeated,
And defeat is unacceptable...
then there is only one option.
Settlement.
Send a letter to Mirza Raje.
Tell him, I will come personally.
'Setting foot in the Mughal
Camp was like inviting death.'
But where did the warriors
of Swaraj care for their life?
Brother.
There is a bad news, brother.
23 forts of Swaraj are
now under Aurangzeb's reign..
..including Kondhana.
Not only did the Marathas
lose Kondhana in Purandar treaty..
And, Shivaji Raje has
been arrested in Agra.
Swaraj had lost its power and pride.
Kondhana was Swaraj's pride..
..and their eyes in the South.
Capturing Kondhana meant taking
over the entire Southern India.
Where are your manners?
We have not handed
this fort over to you yet.
Hand it over now then.
An opportunity to spoil
the mood is very rare.
And, we Mughals are
opportunity seekers.
Your Shivaji Raje has handed
over 23 Forts to our Emperor.
Which includes Kondhana as well.
Once Aau Saheb (mother)
finishes her prayer..
..then Kodhana will
be handed over to you.
Right now, Beshaq Khan can grant only
one permission to your Aau Saheba.
To leave this fort alive.
Beshaq Khan!
Don't forget that you are
speaking with Shivaji Raje's mother.
A single incorrect word
now and there will be bloodshed.
Wait, Pratap Rao.
We shall respect the treaty.
Aau Saheba is sensible..
..and helpless too.
Take off all the saffron flags.
Now the Mughal empire's flag will
wave at every bastion of the fort.
- Long live..
- Mogul Empire..
- The Emperor..
- Long live..
- Mogul Empire..
- The Emperor..
Congratulation!
However, I am happy to see that
the colour of the treaty is saffron.
Keep it safe.
Aau Saheba, wear your shoes.
The heat is strong
and your feet are fragile.
Along with your emotions,
your feet will also be scorched.
No Beshaq Khan..
Until the saffron (Maratha
flag) is waving over Kondhana again..
..I shall remain barefoot.
Along with the fort, consider
these shoes as a gift for Mughals.
I shall wait for your call,
Goddess Bhawani..
Four years passed.
Even today the Mughal
flag waving over Kondhana..
..kept reminding Jijau
of her humiliation.
Shivaji Raje (King Shivaji)
managed to deceive..
..the Mughals and returned to Rajgad.
And at that time, a spy brought news.
Accept the salutation, Raje.
From Tarkib Khan to Trimbak Rao.
You took a huge risk, Trimbak.
The news is such, Raje.
The way Delhi is the capital of north.
Similarly, Alamgir wants Kondhana
to be the capital of the South.
And for this purpose, he is
sending an army of 2000 soldiers..
..along with Udaybhan Rathore
as the new commander-in-chief of fort.
Udaybhan?
Name does not sound like a Mughal.
Age 35 years.
He is dangerous..
Above all,
he has gained Alamgir's trust.
But Alamgir doesn't even
trust his own reflection.
That's true, Raje.
A few month ago,
Shah Pehalvi of Iran..
..came to Agra as Alamgir's guest.
Alamgir and Shah Pehalvi
were playing Human chess.
Here we go, Emperor Alamgir!
This is my horse's move.
You forgot my pawn, Shah Pahalvi.
Make your move.
This is the move of my pawn.
My elephant will crush your pawn.
Delighted with Udaybhan's
ferocious bravery..
..the emperor made him
one of his royal bodyguards.
And one night..
Your highness.
Present Udaybhan in the royal court.
As you wish, your highness.
Why did you stop?
I intend to rule over all of India.
I desire to capture
the entire southern region.
And I wish to see you emerge
victorious by leading this mission.
The way Delhi is the
capital of northern India.
Similarly.. Kondhana will
be the capital of southern India.
I am extremely happy
with your bravery and Loyalty.
That is why I am appointing you
as a commander-in-chief of Kondhana.
And from that day onwards,
a pawn became the commander-in-chief.
He is a human..
..not a devil.
But no less than a devil.
Now, that devil has a Nagin(Serpent)
and the reed pipe to control it.
Our concern is not only about
him being more powerful than we are..
..or he has an army of 2000 soldiers.
The matter of concern is..
..Aurangzeb has sent
a massive cannon with Udaybhan.
The creator has named it as Nagin.
(Serpent).
Its range is up to dozens of miles.
A single blow can destroy
a whole settlement.
The attack is so powerful..
..that It can shake the
walls of all the forts in Deccan.
If the canon succeeds
in reaching Kondhana Fort..
Then swaraj in India may
forever be a dream, Raje (King).
You are speaking the
language of defeat, Pisal.
And naked reality too.
Somebody should learn how
to lose without fighting from you.
It is not so easy to
conquer Kondhana, Gujar.
I myself will accomplish this mission.
No, Raje.
Even if a million people die,
it is okay..
..but the guardian of
million others should be safe.
There is one more warrior..
..who can accomplish this mission.
Subhedar (Commander) Tanhaji Malusare.
Surely, he is the most trusted ally..
..but I cannot ask for
his support this time.
Why not, Raje?
Because when someone's
preparing for his son's wedding..
..I cannot invite him
for this suicidal mission.
After so many years,
for the first time..
..he has an occasion to celebrate.
"The Bonfire is burning"
"An enemy turns into ashes"
"Whenever we wield our swords"
"O Goddess Bhawani!"
"Thousand storms rage"
"An enemy is destroyed from his roots"
"Whenever we are determined"
"O Goddess Bhawani!"
"We all are brave and proud warriors"
"Now every day is a festival of Swaraj"
"Now this head will not bow"
"We shall keep your esteem"
"We take the oath of your name,
Maa Jagdambe (Mother Goddess)"
"O Goddess Bhawani!"
"The smoke was intense"
"The darkness was dense"
"You filled that with light of hope"
"You blessed us with devotion"
"You blessed us with power"
"You filled our life with joy"
"Those who were yearning for years"
"Have smile on their faces"
"Ambe Mata (Mother Goddess),
by your blessings"
"Happiness has filled my home"
"We are as solid as arock"
"We can flow against the stream"
"Whenever we are determined"
"O Goddess Bhawani!"
"We all are brave and proud warriors"
"Now every day is a festival of Swaraj"
"Now this head will not bow"
"We shall keep your esteem"
"We take the oath of your name,
Maa Jagdambe (Mother Goddess)"
"O Goddess Bhawani!"
Missing your Father?
Whenever I touch his sword..
..I turn into Tanhya from Tanhaji.
He always used to say..
I will perform your wedding
in a grand way Tanhya.
However death defeated us.
A warrior that sheds his
enemy's blood can also shed tears.
No one will ever believe it.
I win every battle, Savitri.
But I always..
..lose this one.
I won't let you lose.
We will have a grand
wedding for Raiba.
The marriage procession will be so
grand, that people will watch in awe.
And wherever father is,
he will be happy.
What is this?
When Goddess Parvati sits
on her husband, Lord Shankar's lap..
..then that is right.
And if I sit on my husband's lap,
then that is wrong.
Whole Umrath says,
'We look very good together.'
That's true.
But whenever we have seen ourselves,
it is simply in each other's eyes.
I want to see us together.
We can't even see us
together in this tiny mirror.
Look.. She is here.
There's more coming..
The mystery has come.
She has been with
him for several day..
But I'm unable to understand
her relationship with our chief.
Didn't I tell you..
A woman can influence even a fiend.
Our chief is just a human being.
The chief is looking this way.
Come.
How are you, my destruction?
You will be destroyed.
You abducted a widow from
her husband's funeral pyre.
In which hell will
you pay for this sin?
People turn red with anger.
But you turned pink, Kamal.
Just like a Lotus.
Fear the god, Udaybhan.
That very god of yours has
made me fall in love with you.
And now this desire
runs through my veins.
This desire..
..will be buried with a shroud.
If you are stubborn..
..then so am I.
If I don't change your no into a yes.
Then even my name is not Udaybhan.
- Ae Shankarya!
- Yes!
Until we return after
inviting Shivaji Raje..
..till then your eyes
and sword should be on alert.
Umrath's safety is
my responsibility now.
- Ae Surya!
- Yes.
The sun is upon us..
..and Tanhya's talks
are not getting over.
What made you laugh?
Laughing without reason.
People praise Shivaji Raje a lot.
Honestly, today you look
even better than Shivba.
There is no comparison
between Tanhya and Shivba.
Shivba's thought of Swaraj
has changed the entire nation.
He changed history.
I'm sure that one day,
you too will change history.
People write inspirational
poetries about him.
They will write about you too.
Who will write?
I will.
Sister-in-law..brother..hurry up.
Even the horses are tired
waiting for the riders.
Give me the invitation cards.
Here he comes..groom is here..
Start the music!
Subhedar! Shivaji Raje must
come to Umrath for Raiba's wedding.
And yes! If Raje is not coming
then you shouldn't come either.
Understand?
Aunty, whether I come or not,
but he will definitely come.
Update me as soon as the
southern wind starts blowing.
Yes. Sir.
Accept the salutation, Raje.
Udaybhan has reached
the doors of Southern region.
Oh my God! What a big village!
Not a village, Raiba.
Rajgad!
The capital of Marathas.
Can I ask you a question?
We travelled so far
to deliver the invitation..
..What If Shivaji Raje doesn't come?
We'll be humiliated.
Everyone in the village
will laugh on us.
Raiba, You should ask Shivaji Raje..
..Whether he'll attend
your wedding or not.
Greetings, Subhedar!
You have been here after a long time.
Yes. I am here to invite
for my son's wedding.
On the day of Ashtami
(the eighth day of the lunar fortnight)
No invitation for me?
Of course.
First invitation is for the King,
and then his people.
See you.
We cannot attack Kondhana.
Why not, Raje?
Udaybhan has reached close.
If he gets the news of our attack
then he will speed up his movement.
On one side,
Beshaq Khan with his army..
..and on the other side, Udaybhan.
It is like sticking our
feet in the crocodile's jaw.
So what do we do now, Raje?
There is only one way.
Beshaq Khan will not
come down from the fort.
We will have to stop Udaybhan.
Subhedar Tanhaji Malusare is here.
He must be here to
give the invitation.
Remember..
Tanhya should not
know about the mission.
As swaraj is growing..
..you are also growing along, Tanhaji.
Imagine.. what will happen
when all of India will be ours.
Shelar Uncle.
Suryaji..
Raje..
Oh my God,
You have come to the door Maa Saheb.
My Son came here,
along with my grandson to invite us..
..then how can a mother's
happiness wait, Hmm?
Shivba, you were saying that
a lion has arrived from the jungle.
But I feel that your childhood
has returned from the past.
Oh! Let me complete
the work I came for.
Do come for the wedding
along with your entire family.
How are the wedding preparations
coming along, Tanhya?
Very well.
Actually, mother has invited
a few brahmins (priests)..
..all the way from Kashi
for prayer recitation.
We were expecting them
and you arrived instead.
Shivgiri maharaj?
Some of his disciples.
They are coming here
for the first time.
Great..Getting ready for battle, Raje?
Not at all.
Remember Raje..
After taking the pledge
of Swaraj at Raireshwar..
..when we decided to win the fort,
Then you said..
..one who pierces the branch of the tree
with his spear, shall lead the mission.
Till date, I am the first to take
charge of every battle for Swaraj.
Bravo!
Bravo, Subhedar Tanhaji.
Excellent!
Accept the salutation, Raje.
Breaking a branch of a tree
and breaking your enemy's skull..
..are two very different things.
Yes! Correct!
Just like being courageous and claiming
to be courageous are two separate things.
I do not just claim to be courageous.
When the time comes,
I always show courage.
Then let's have a duel.
With Raje's permission.
Lacking in practice, Pisal.
You did not tell me Raje,
where is the mission?
Eh Chultya,
Will you stop honing that thing?
I am telling you..
..go and reveal everything to Tanhaji.
Tell him that Raje is
hiding something from you.
If the trust is broken, only then will the
rift be created between Raje and Tanhaji.
And what if it helps
in making their bond stronger?
Then Tanhaji will surely
proceed to win Kondhana..
..but he'll never return.
And What if Raje came
to know that we told Tanhaji?
Then you can tell Raje..
..that no one else can
win Kondhana except Tanhaji.
And you will be out
of risk for this battle.
Raje, I am concerned
about you and Swaraj.
He will appreciate you.
It seems your mother must have fed the
fox when she was pregnant with you.
Bravo, Chultya, Bravo.
Hello, Subhedarji.
It is your shop, master.
Choose any one.
I need something big enough..
..to see two faces together.
Then you should take this, Subhedarji.
Pisal, what brings you here?
I've been looking for you, Subhedar.
Oh God..
What does it mean by
you were looking for me?
It is a personal matter.
Tie it and give.
Forgive me guru.
I could not welcome you.
Your mother informed.
Preparing for a mission.
Yes. That's the predicament.
What predicament?
Now you make Aau saheb understand..
She's not allowing
me to lead the mission.
What is this guru?
I attacked you,
and you defended with your right hand.
Instead of facing it head-on.
Whenever there's a crisis, it's
not always wise to face it head-on.
Put your right hand forward.
Right now, I can't express
this to my right hand guru.
Why not?
Because his son is
going to get married.
Is his son's wedding
more important than Swaraj?
Is the wedding more important than the
Saffron (Maratha flag) of Marathas?
Is the wedding so important that it
compels a king to lie to his soldier..
..and a friend to another friend?
Is the wedding far more important..
..than the oath taken in Raireshwar
..with Shankar as our witness..
..about living and dying together,
sharing happiness and pain together..
..the Maratha flag will
soar high as long as we live.
If we die we go wrapped
in the saffron flag..
..had to be broken.
Tanhya!
Swaraj is far more important
than any comfort or happiness.
Accept my salutations, your highness.
Your tears are very precious
for your best friend.
Remember.
Whenever you shed tears,
Tanhaji's blood will be shedding.
Now Tanhaji will lead
the mission of Kondhana.
No, Tanhya.
Please make your son understand,
Aau Saheb.
How can I explain?
You are my son as well.
Your one son has
created Swaraj for you.
Give the other one an opportunity
to cover your bare feet.
May god bless you!
Jagdamb..(Mother Goddess)
Now wave the Saffron flag..
..and let it be declared.
First, the conquest over Kondhana..
..and then my Raiba's wedding.
We have only two options.
Attack..
..or wait for him to get here.
Raje, you always say..
Waiting is the sign of weakness.
Attack..
The First strike is
worth a million attacks.
We have four routes to
reach Pune from Burhanpur, Lord.
The first is Chargaon, Raje.
Open fields..
Udaybhan won't take the risk.
The second one is Akola route,
Passing through Aurangabad,
en route to Pune.
Rural area.
He will not pass
through the settlement.
The third route is
through Khandesh to Pune.
The longest route.
Not possible.
And the fourth route, Lord.
This one..
..because it is the shortest route..
..Which passes through the hills..
..and easier to camouflage.
So what route shall we take, Lord?
We will travel through Shirdhon.
Shirdhon!
Shirdhon, Raje, Shirdhon.
Udaybhan will take the Shirdhon route.
If I don't turn Shirdhon
into Udaybhan's grave..
..then I am not a real Maratha.
Chultya! I am giving
you an important task.
Yes. Master.
It is a delicate task
and your life could be at risk.
You must reach to Udaybhan
before Tanhaji reaches Shirdhon.
Me?
Tell him that I am his ally.
Once I acquire Shivaji's position..
..then I shall be of his service.
Yes. Master.
Glory to..Mahadev!
Hey Salim..
Buddy..
Hey, friend, What happened?
We've been camping
here since three days.
And we are not moving forward,
And the chief won't take
his eyes off of that lady.
Don't start complaining again.
Who is this lady?
You don't understand one thing.
Somebody has rightly said..
"First love is very fatal."
Yes. That's true.
Even fire seems like a toy.
My Lord!
Some Maratha has come to see you.
Udaybhanji..
Who are you?
Mmm.. I am Chultya.
Chu what?
Yes..Yes..Yes..Chultya, Chultya.
This is for you.
Jagat Singh.
Salutation from Chandraji Pisal.
I have news for you.
Maratha chieftain Tanhaji Malusare
is hiding in the mountains of Shirdon.
Beware of the attack.
A friend..Chandraji Pisal.
What is the purpose of
sharing this news with me?
Friendship, my Lord. Friendship.
Chandraji Pisal wants to
be in the good books of Alamgir.
After all, the enemy of the
enemy is a friend, right my Lord?
Who is the enemy?
Of course, Tanhaji Malasure.
And friend?
My Lord.. You.. Udaybhan Rathore.
Chuu ji.
That is my informer.
If your information matches with his..
..then you are my friend.
And if it doesn't..
Then there will be one less Chuu..
..in this world.
Lord ..Some Maratha,
Tanhaji is keeping a watch..
..from the mountains
of Shirdhon with his soldiers.
I told you.
Jagat Singh,
Take good care of my friend.
Ae..look.. there is a void..
Ae..Ae.. do it quickly.. come on..
My child, handle it gently..
You will make my tomb here.
This is gunpowder..Explosives.
Yes Uncle.
He will not pass through our territory
during the day with his massive army.
He will travel at night.
Where is this river going,
Khaibar Khan?
Sir, People says that
it is going towards south.
Can you see that coconut tree?
Yes.
Cut it down.
Yes Sir.
The army is getting
restless to march ahead.
From today onwards, we will travel
only in the night, Khaiber Khan.
Bur Sir..
Which route shall we take now?
Via Shirdhon.
Look.
Subhedar! (Commander!)
The cannon is approaching..
..but the army seems
to be very low in number.
Subhedarji (Commander),
you have been betrayed.
We are all Marathas.
Stop it...
Bravo Udaybhanji.
Amazing..
One must learn how to
deceive the enemy from you!
Wonder where that Tanhaji
will be hiding his face.
Everyone stumbles with a stone.
But the one who rises
is a true Maratha.
Pick up your sword.
Say Goddess Bhawani , Jai Shivaji.
Conquer.
Strike it ,Tanhya strike it.
Kondhana will be at your feet..
..and you will be the
commander of Kondhana.
Brother, now we should go to Rajgad.
No Surya.
Send the army back.
You and uncle reach
at Umrath along with Raiba.
And gather our soldiers.
And where are you going?
To endure the situation.
What shall I tell Shivba if he asks?
Tell him, Tanhya will show his face..
..only after Udaybhan's death..
..and our saffron flag
is waving over Kondhana.
This is Udaybhan's first victory
against Marathas in the Deccan.
Congratulations my lord!
Congratulations.
Beshaq Khan,
Send a message to Alamgir.
The Nagin has reached Kondhana
Now ready to sting Swaraj.
Turn the Cannon..
..and aim at Rajgad.
But sire,
at least wait for Alamgir's orders.
Think about it, sire.
Now Shivaji is under my control.
There is news from Deccan.
Udaybhan and Nagin
have reached Kondhana.
Now, no one can stop your
dream of conquering all of India.
Kondhana is unbeatable.
Invulnerable..
Filled with rocky paths
and steep deathly slopes.
The bushes are so deep..
..that even the wind screams
while blowing through it.
The structure is so high,
that it mocks the cannonballs.
You cannot conquer Kondhana
just by staring at it.
That is why I came
looking for you, Baba.
You've guarded the
fort for many years.
No matter how strong the fort is..
..there is always a secret passage.
There is a secret passage, which
comes down to the bottom of the fort.
But it must be covered
by the branches now.
No one knows where it leads to,
at the foothills.
It has been years, but no
one has passed through that passage.
Listen.
There's a banyan tree
in the prison's courtyard.
And there's a secret door behind it.
..But you won't be
able to reach there.
I will reach Baba.
Why are you risking your life?
Baba, when Saffron (Maratha
flag) runs through my veins..
..then who cares about life!!!
You are right..
I am blind..
..but even I want to see freedom.
Have some bread.
What are you thinking?
There is a man who can help you.
Who?
The Maratha fort
keeper of the Mughals..
Gheresarnaik!!
Gheresarnaik! Is he your man?
Yes, sire.
He made a mistake last night, sire.
Forgive him.
What happened?
Sire, he forgot to reply last night.
As always,
we yelled from above, Stay awake..
And he had to reply "Stay alert".
But he didn't reply.
My lord, last night I was
facing a wild boar at that moment.
If I had made a sound,
it would've attacked.
Last night you faced
a wild boar, is it?
Yes, my lord.
So now, you are facing a lion.
Say it...
Will you speak?
No..
Stay alert!
Sire..Sire.. please forgive him.
He'll never repeat this mistake again.
Stay awake... Say alert... Stay awake!
Stay awake!
Kashi!
He still didn't say stay alert.
There is no mercy for any
mistake in Udaybhan's court.
Only punishments.
Even dogs are better
than you Gheresarnaik.
At least they stay
loyal to their master.
Satya...
Under any circumstances,
no one can know what happened here.
Yes Naik.
Naik, we searched the entire forest.
But, could not trace Kashi.
I guess the wild animals..
Who's there?
First, try to recognize him.
Kashi is no more.
Oh God!
How could he be so stupid
to go near the broken wall?
He slipped.
The burden of lie is too heavy.
Why don't you tell us the truth?
What truth?
Last night, while guarding the fort,
Kashi forgot to say 'stay alert' once.
Who told you that?
A dying man can never lie.
Naik, is it true?
It's true.
But what option do we have other than
staying quiet in front of Udaybhan?
The same thing that
you've been doing till now...
Betrayal!
Stop betraying your own motherland.
Now betray your enemy.
Why should we?
For whom?
For Swaraj (Self-rule).
For future generations.
For Shivaji Raje.
Who handed over 23 forts in a treaty..
..without thinking
what would happen to us.
Shivba had no choice.
This mission is to
reconquer those forts again.
And the first one is this fort..
Kondhana.
Are you crazy?
You want to conquer Kondhana?
He has come here
with our death warrants.
Where are you living anyway?
You have no dignity.
Even during the daylight,
your mothers and sisters are not safe.
Your animals are dragged
away in your presence.
Brahmins can't pray,
farmers can't cultivate..
In fact, you can't even chant
Shri Ram's name during funeral rites.
And you call this a life.
How many more times
are you going to die?
There Alamgir breaks the
temple of Kashi Vishwanath..
..and here Udaybhan kills Kashi.
And we guard them.
Every night.
Stay Alert..
Stay awake..
Wake up Gheresarnaik!
You're lucky, Kashi.
And I was the fool..
..who came here to breathe
life into a bunch of dead people.
Good-bye.
Beware!
Who are you?
From Umrath..
Name..
Subhedar Tanhaji Malusare.
Subhedar! (Commander)
Forgive us, Subhedar!
From now on,
we will do whatever you say.
I want to see enemy
before defeating him.
Consider it done.
Day after tomorrow, there is a religious
fair of Kondaneshwar Mahadev on the fort..
"Shankara."
"Grab me if you identify."
"Light the fire of blood
in my crafty-clever mind."
"My moustache has a spark."
"My stance is carefree."
"My dance is like a sword."
"And ember in my words."
"Brave warrior. Brave warrior... "
"I am a lion dressed in fox's skin."
"Who play gimmicks
for the benefit of people."
"Grab me if you identify."
"Brave warrior. Brave warrior... "
"First conquest of Kondhana..
"Mavala of your Kondhana.."
"Open the gates of your heart."
"Your master has arrived."
"I bring war as I walk."
"With a lot of trickeries."
"Fences are elevated."
"I came here to jump over them."
"Grab me if you identify."
"Light the fire of blood
in my crafty-clever mind."
"Brave warrior. Brave warrior... "
"The flame that glows is
of my Bhawani (Mother Goddess)."
Why did you kill him?
In any corner of the world,
the traitor has only one punishment.
Who are you?
Tanhaji.
Khaiber Khan!
Yes sire.
Will you bear the
trouble of arresting him?
There's a banyan tree
in the prison's courtyard.
And there's a secret
passage behind it.
You must be regretting now.
If you had known
about me before coming..
..then you would've
never dared to come here.
You would be scared.
If someone stands in front of you
and says that he's not afraid of you..
Then understand, he is either mad..
..or a Maratha.
Are you mad?
Every Maratha is mad..
For Swaraj (Self-rule)..
For Shivaji Raje..
For Saffron (Maratha flag)..
I will eliminate the existence
of the saffron (Maratha flag)..
..from the face of this earth.
Who are you to eliminate the Saffron..
..that befalls upon us from the skies.
Twice a day.
Before the sun rises..
..and after the sun sets.
You're emotionally
connected to your soil..
..whereas my wisdom has no emotions.
You can sacrifice your life..
.. and I can take lives.
Right now.
I can bury you into this soil.
I'll be fortunate to sacrifice
my life for my motherland.
You should think about yourself.
If this soil refuses to accept you..
..then what will happen
to your corpse? (dead body)
Wait Udaybhan!
He's the bait for the
rat that you want to finish.
If Tanhaji is here,
then Shivaji will surely come here.
My sword's out of its scabbard,
Jagat Singh.
It won't return without tasting blood.
What you will do tomorrow, do it now.
If you remain engrossed in thinking..
..when will you kill the enemy?
You were right.
Every traitor has only one punishment.
Death.
Now both of us will wait..
You, for death.
Me, for Shivaji.
Eat it.
It will give you strength
to bear the pain.
I need your help.
For the sake of my sister.
For the sake of Kamal.
We lived in a small
village in the desert.
Called Retipur.
Udaybhan was the son of our minister.
All the children from the
royal family used to play together.
One day, the prince of Tidwana
sent a marriage proposal to Kamal.
Udaybhan grew restless.
I love you a lot.
Are you joking?
My love is not a joke.
We cannot be together.
But why?
Marriage is the union
of two equal people, Udaybhan.
So what's lacking in me?
I don't deserve you just
because you're a princess..
..and I am just a...
I wish that were the only case.
Then?
It's about lineage.
You might be the son of a minister.
..but your mother...
After that he left Rajputana,
No one knew where he went.
Kamal got married to
the prince of Dhuliket.
One day, Udaybhan was
seen with the Mughals.
They attacked Dhuliket.
The Mughals assassinated
Kamal's husband.
And Udaybhan abducted
my widowed sister.
And you joined him
to protect your sister.
Tanhaji Malusare gives you his word..
Our goals may be different..
..but we have a common enemy.
From today onwards, this Rajput shall
never raise his sword on a Maratha again.
On the night of Ashtami
(the eighth day of the lunar fortnight)
You will have to
keep Udaybhan occupied.
- Jai Bhavani!
The prisoner's cuffs have come loose.
Hurry up and tighten them again.
- Search him.
- Yes sire.
Where did he go?
We searched every nook
and corner of the fort..
..but, we couldn't find him.
It hurts, doesn't it?
It does, when one gets slapped.
Look at this, Look!
The mark of Tanhaji's claw.
It hurts.
Send our soldiers in every direction.
Any village that helps him..
Burn it.
I..
want..
Tanhaji.
We apologise, Malpatil ji.
Everything happened suddenly.
Tanhaji gave his word to Shivaji Raje.
And the promise given
to me has no worth?
To change the auspicious
day of marriage means..
What reputation will I have
in the village Subhedarni bai?
We're a family now, Malpatil.
Your reputation is our reputation.
And as you can see,
the preparations for Raiba's wedding..
..is in full swing in our village too.
But we wish the
wedding to take place..
..on the date that was decided.
What difference does it make?
After a couple of days..
We want this wedding to take place on Ashtami
(the eighth day of the lunar fortnight) only!
That is not possible Sahukar ji.
Brother took an oath
in front of Shivaji Raje.
First, victory over Kondhana..
..and then Raiba's wedding.
Shivaji Raje!
I would've honoured his oath if it was
taken in the witness of God.
Shivaji Raje is just a human being.
But he's no less than God.
Don't forget Sahukar,
He's the pride of us Marathas.
When Shivaji Raje wields his sword..
..it safeguards and supports the honour
of women and homes of everyone.
He make all of us proud.
But nobody knows when that pride will
be besmirched in the name of Swaraj.
It's better to die like warrior,
than to live like a coward.
If the mission is unsuccessful..
..God forbid..
if something happens to the Subhedar?
I promise you..
Whatever the outcome of the mission..
..the very next day, your daughter
will become our daughter-in-law.
Well said my daughter-in-law!
You may leave now.
He's coming.
Subhedar's coming.
So Surya, are the preparations done?
Yes. Brother.
Your wish is my command.
What's the news about the enemy?
One fort..two doors..five hundred
fighters..two thousand Mughals.
One Nagin (serpent)..one
snake charmer,Udaybhan.
You're applying turmeric..
..but your tears are
adding salt to my wounds.
I convinced Malpatil..
..but how do I convince myself?
Tell me one thing..
..on one side is the
debt I owe to my motherland..
..and on the other
is my duty towards family.
What's more important?
I can ask questions too.
On one side is a mother's love..
..and on the other
is her husband's oath.
Now what's more important?
In response, I can only say..
On one side are a human's desires..
..and the other side
are their deeds (duty).
What's more important?
You have a way with words,
just like you do with a sword.
It's impossible to win against you.
Imagine if I win Kondhana..
..then what gift will you give me?
Why imagine?
I know you will win.
And the gift will
be whatever you want.
Then promise me.
You will welcome
me dressed as a bride.
Brother?
Don't be afraid, Kamal.
Udaybhan is inspecting
the fort's security.
I want to tell you
something important.
On the night of Ashtami
(the eighth day of the lunar fortnight)..
..Tanhaji Malusare will attack Kondhana.
Along with Kondhana,
we will also be set free.
Kamal, I think we should help him.
How, brother?
You should accept Udaybhan's
marriage proposal.
He will be lost in his happiness.
And it will make
Tanhaji's work easier.
You trust Tanhaji so much?
I have seen history in Tanhaji's eyes.
And soon he will turn it.
Forgive them.
Our soldiers were guarding
with their eyes wide open.
Right right, maybe that's
how Tanhaji Malasure escaped.
Very safely.
Where did he go after
escaping the fort?
No one knows.
Went looking for him.
You couldn't find him anywhere.
Because of this,
I granted life to these slackers.
Sire! Sire!
Please reconsider.
Spare their lives.
What kind of a joke is this, Jagat?
Not a joke..
A message of hope.
The outcome of your desires.
Dreams, wishes, aspirations..
An auspicious gesture of your wedding.
What does it mean?
Kamal said yes.
She will be yours on next Ashtami
(the eighth day of the lunar fortnight).
Glory to Eklingji!
Sire!
What gift will you
give me on my wedding?
Whatever you want.
Tanhaji Malusare!
- Magic..Magic.
- Giddya!
Giddya! Have it.
Now you go and do so such a trick..
..show such bravery
that the enemies squirm.
Mom.
What is this?
For good luck.
To make the enemies squirm.
Today, last wish of Giddya's
father has come true.
Giddya has become a soldier.
May god bless Tanhaji with success.
Father, everyone is saying
that Udaybhan has a huge army.
How will we defeat him?
Now you tell me..
How many Kauravas were there
in the battle of Mahabharata?
How many were the Pandavas?
- Five!
Who won the battle?
- Pandavas.
Raiba, who will win today?
Subhedar Tanhaji Malusare.
No.
Swaraj will be victorious.
Truth will be victorious.
We all will be victorious.
Har Har Mahadev!
You are here?
Does everyone remember their part?
Yes Subhedar!
Along with Tatya-Shiru,
Gorpade brothers and fifty soldiers..
..I will climb Dronagiri cliff.
We'll accomplish this task
that's impossible for others.
And I shall wait at Kalyan
darwaza (door) with 300 soldiers.
And I will climb up the secret passageway
and open the Kalyan darwaza (door).
And we'll attack as
soon as the door opens.
The attack will be
from both the sides.
Surya and I will
attack from the front..
..and you from the back
along with 50 soldiers.
We will take over the
Jhunjhar buruj (bastion).
And then Sadar (Court).
Sign of capture.
Cuckoo sound..Koo..Hoo.
Sign of danger.
Giddya's voice..
Not mine..
The owl's sound.
The way every particle
of soil has a mountain..
..every seed has a forest,
and every sword an army..
..likewise, inside each
Maratha is a million Maratha.
This is our final conversation.
We shall meet again on Kondhana.
Call the Ghorpade brothers.
Laxman, pull..pull it upward.
Laxman, stop.
No! No!
Glory to Mahadev!
Laxman, no!
Magic. Magic. Magic. Magic.
I would have been injured.
Brother, no news of Tanhaji yet.
Have faith in destiny.
Sire, Marathas have scaled the fort.
WHAT? HOW?
Magic.
Sire, we've lost the
Kalyan Darwaza (door).
Now Maha Darwaza (Main
door) is the last hope.
Magic. Magic.
Turn the cannon,
Aim at Rajgad.
Yes sire.
Charge ahead!
One battle is going on at Kondhana..
..another one in my heart.
I want to take soldiers
and leave for Kondhana right now.
Subhedar Tanhaji made
you take a vow, Raje.
You shall not leave Rajgad
until he sends a message.
My tears are not stopping..
..that means, he must be bleeding.
Make the preparations, Pant.
We're breaking the
vow we made to Tanhya.
People leave behind many possessions.
I am leaving you behind with a debt.
'Freedom of our motherland.'
Aau Saheb.
Final salutation Raje.
The fort is conquered..
..but I lost my lion.
That day, the benefactor
of millions wept intensely.
Tanhya was draped in the Saffron
(Maratha flag) after conquering Kondhana.
Aurangzeb's dream of capturing
the whole of India remained a dream.
Shivaji Raje himself arrived at Umrath and
performed the rites of Raiba's wedding.
And in a closed room,
Savitri kept her promise.
I know you will win.
And the gift will be whatever you want.
Then promise me.
You will welcome me dressed as a bride.